2540 - Scaling pipelines in Redpanda Connect (#57)
redpanda-data/cloud-docs: modules/develop/pages/connect/configuration/scale-pipelines.adoc

= Scaling Data Pipeline Resources on BYOC clusters
:description: Learn how to manually scale resources for data pipelines using the Data Plane API.

> By default, every data pipeline created using the Redpanda Cloud UI is allocated 0.1 vCPU and 400 MB of memory. This resource limit should let you experiment with pipelines that create low message volumes of between 1-100 messages per second. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, every data pipeline created using the Redpanda Cloud UI is allocated 1.0 vCPU and 400 MB of memory. This resource limit should let you experiment with pipelines that create low message volumes of between 1-100 messages per second. 
```

Also do we want to publish the defaults in docs? If we change them we have to change the docs. 

> create low message volumes of between 1-100 messages per second.

Is this correct? This might be pipeline, payload, and workload dependant. How have we determined this range? Are we sure we want to publish numbers like this?

Both of these are really for @vladoschreiner Just wanted to double check.

Author: Updated.

> To allocate more resources to a specific pipeline, you need to use the Data Plane API.

Author: Updated.

If your pipeline exceeds the CPU quota, contact Redpanda Support.

== Update Resources for a Data Pipeline

If you haven't used the Redpanda Cloud API before, see the xref:manage:api/cloud-api-quickstart.adoc[Cloud API Quickstart] for details of how to authenticate and get the base URL for Data Plane endpoints.

To update the resources for an existing data pipeline, make a request to xref:api:ROOT:cloud-api.adoc#put-/v1alpha2/redpanda-connect/pipelines/-id-[`PUT /v1alpha2/redpanda-connect/pipelines/{id}`]. 

> The following example allocates 3 vCPU and 500 MB of memory to data pipeline. The `memory_shares` parameter accepts a range of units. For example, `500M` (500 megabytes), `2G` (2 gigabytes), or `500Mi` (500 mebibytes).    

Author: @bojand - What do you think would be a more realistic resource allocation?

> The following example allocates 3 vCPU and 500 MB of memory to data pipeline. The `memory_shares` parameter accepts a range of units. For example, `500M` (500 megabytes), `2G` (2 gigabytes), or `500Mi` (500 mebibytes).    

Reviewer: We can just do `1.2` vCPU and `500M` for memory.

> The following example allocates 3 vCPU and 500 MB of memory to data pipeline. The `memory_shares` parameter accepts a range of units. For example, `500M` (500 megabytes), `2G` (2 gigabytes), or `500Mi` (500 mebibytes).    

Reviewer 2: Please explain the syntax. We can reduce it to number with a single decimal. No need to pitch the whole K8s syntax. 
E.g. CPU shares: 0.1 is a minimum. 
Memory: 0.4G, 2G. Nothing more granular

> The following example allocates 3 vCPU and 500 MB of memory to data pipeline. The `memory_shares` parameter accepts a range of units. For example, `500M` (500 megabytes), `2G` (2 gigabytes), or `500Mi` (500 mebibytes).    

Reviewer: 3 is fine. it's just an example. But people have a tendency to copy and paste so I just thought they would easily overprovision.

> The following example allocates 3 vCPU and 500 MB of memory to data pipeline. The `memory_shares` parameter accepts a range of units. For example, `500M` (500 megabytes), `2G` (2 gigabytes), or `500Mi` (500 mebibytes).    

Author: Updated. I've tried to simplify as much as possible.

[,bash]

> ----

Author: This example is untested.

Reviewer: This should work now on new clusters.

```sh
❯ http -H "Authorization: Bearer $API_TOKEN" https://api-703bb20a.crkruvcgrlev69gaig90.fmc.ign.cloud.redpanda.com/v1alpha2/redpanda-connect/pipelines/crkt4rl8mchl4oiqcld0
HTTP/2 200
date: Tue, 17 Sep 2024 19:07:16 GMT
content-type: application/json
content-length: 902
grpc-metadata-content-type: application/grpc
vary: Origin
strict-transport-security: max-age=31536000; includeSubDomains

{
    "id": "crkt4rl8mchl4oiqcld0",
    "display_name": "test0",
    "description": "",
    "config_yaml": "input:\n  label: \"\"\n  generate:\n    mapping: root = {\"message\":\"pipeline\",\"id\":uuid_v4(),\"timestamp_ms\":timestamp_unix_micro(),\"timestamp\":now()}\n    interval: \"5s\"\n    count: 0\n    batch_size: 1\n    auto_replay_nacks: true\n\npipeline:\n  processors:\n    - bloblang: |\n        root = this\n        root.title = if root.message.type() == \"string\" {\n          root.message.uppercase()\n        }\n        \noutput:\n  label: \"rpconnect_gen_out\"\n  kafka_franz:\n    seed_brokers: [seed-703bb20a.crkruvcgrlev69gaig90.fmc.ign.cloud.redpanda.com:9092]\n    topic: \"rpconnect-gen-out\"\n    tls:\n      enabled: true\n    sasl:\n    - mechanism: SCRAM-SHA-256\n      password: rpconnect\n      username: rpconnect",
    "resources": {
        "memory_shares": "400M",
        "cpu_shares": "1"
    },
    "state": "STATE_RUNNING"
}

~
❯ http PUT -H "Authorization: Bearer $API_TOKEN" https://api-703bb20a.crkruvcgrlev69gaig90.fmc.ign.cloud.redpanda.com/v1alpha2/redpanda-connect/pipelines/crkt4rl8mchl4oiqcld0 < ~/Downloads/putpipeline.json
HTTP/2 200
date: Tue, 17 Sep 2024 19:07:35 GMT
content-type: application/json
content-length: 904
grpc-metadata-content-type: application/grpc
vary: Origin
strict-transport-security: max-age=31536000; includeSubDomains

{
    "id": "crkt4rl8mchl4oiqcld0",
    "display_name": "test0",
    "description": "",
    "config_yaml": "input:\n  label: \"\"\n  generate:\n    mapping: root = {\"message\":\"pipeline\",\"id\":uuid_v4(),\"timestamp_ms\":timestamp_unix_micro(),\"timestamp\":now()}\n    interval: \"5s\"\n    count: 0\n    batch_size: 1\n    auto_replay_nacks: true\n\npipeline:\n  processors:\n    - bloblang: |\n        root = this\n        root.title = if root.message.type() == \"string\" {\n          root.message.uppercase()\n        }\n        \noutput:\n  label: \"rpconnect_gen_out\"\n  kafka_franz:\n    seed_brokers: [seed-703bb20a.crkruvcgrlev69gaig90.fmc.ign.cloud.redpanda.com:9092]\n    topic: \"rpconnect-gen-out\"\n    tls:\n      enabled: true\n    sasl:\n    - mechanism: SCRAM-SHA-256\n      password: rpconnect\n      username: rpconnect",
    "resources": {
        "memory_shares": "500M",
        "cpu_shares": "1200m"
    },
    "state": "STATE_RUNNING"
}

~
❯ http -H "Authorization: Bearer $API_TOKEN" https://api-703bb20a.crkruvcgrlev69gaig90.fmc.ign.cloud.redpanda.com/v1alpha2/redpanda-connect/pipelines/crkt4rl8mchl4oiqcld0
HTTP/2 200
date: Tue, 17 Sep 2024 19:07:38 GMT
content-type: application/json
content-length: 904
grpc-metadata-content-type: application/grpc
vary: Origin
strict-transport-security: max-age=31536000; includeSubDomains

{
    "id": "crkt4rl8mchl4oiqcld0",
    "display_name": "test0",
    "description": "",
    "config_yaml": "input:\n  label: \"\"\n  generate:\n    mapping: root = {\"message\":\"pipeline\",\"id\":uuid_v4(),\"timestamp_ms\":timestamp_unix_micro(),\"timestamp\":now()}\n    interval: \"5s\"\n    count: 0\n    batch_size: 1\n    auto_replay_nacks: true\n\npipeline:\n  processors:\n    - bloblang: |\n        root = this\n        root.title = if root.message.type() == \"string\" {\n          root.message.uppercase()\n        }\n        \noutput:\n  label: \"rpconnect_gen_out\"\n  kafka_franz:\n    seed_brokers: [seed-703bb20a.crkruvcgrlev69gaig90.fmc.ign.cloud.redpanda.com:9092]\n    topic: \"rpconnect-gen-out\"\n    tls:\n      enabled: true\n    sasl:\n    - mechanism: SCRAM-SHA-256\n      password: rpconnect\n      username: rpconnect",
    "resources": {
        "memory_shares": "500M",
        "cpu_shares": "1200m"
    },
    "state": "STATE_RUNNING"
}
```

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/88c6167e-88bf-4bb6-bcad-90fb23a92a0d)

> curl -X PUT "https://api.redpanda.com/v1alpha2/redpanda-connect/pipelines/<pipeline-id>"  \

Reviewer: Should `api.redpanda.com` be replaced with something that makes it explicit the user needs to use the data plane API URL, which is different for every Redpanda Cloud cluster.

Author: Yes, this is just a placeholder until I test.

> = Scaling Data Pipeline Resources on BYOC Clusters

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
= Scale Data Pipeline Resources on BYOC Clusters
```

Author: Updated.

:description: Learn how to manually scale resources for data pipelines using the Data Plane API.

> When you create a data pipeline through the Cloud UI, Redpanda Connect reserves compute resources for the exclusive use of that pipeline. This initial resource allocation should let you experiment with pipelines that create low message volumes. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When you create a data pipeline through the Cloud UI, Redpanda Connect reserves compute resources for the exclusive use of that pipeline. This initial resource allocation is enough to experiment with pipelines that create low message volumes. 
```

Author: Updated

For pipelines with resource-intensive or higher throughput workloads, you can manually scale resources, using the xref:manage:api/cloud-dataplane-api.adoc[Data Plane API].   

> == Update Resources for a Data Pipeline

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
== Update resources for a data pipeline
```

Author: Updated.

 -H "accept: application/json" \
 -H "content-type: application/json" \
 -d '{"config_yaml":"input:\n generate:\n   interval: 1s\n   mapping: |\n     root.id = uuid_v4()\n     root.   user.name = fake(\"name\")\n     root.user.email = fake(\"email\")\n     root.content = fake(\"paragraph\")\n\npipeline:\n processors:\n   - mutation: |\n       root.title = \"PRIVATE AND CONFIDENTIAL\"\n\noutput:\n kafka_franz:\n   seed_brokers:\n     - seed-8b788fee.cr7320vkc43nu6gaj888.byoc.prd.cloud.redpanda.com:9092\n   sasl:\n     - mechanism: SCRAM-SHA-256\n       password: password\n       username: connect\n   topic: processed-emails\n   tls:\n     enabled: true\n", \
    "description":"Email processor", \ 
    "display_name":"emailprocessor-pipeline", \
    "resources":{ \
        "cpu_shares":"1.2", \
        "memory_shares":"500M" \
        } \
      }' 
----
A successful response shows the updated resource allocations with the `cpu_shares` value returned in millicpu.
. Make a request to xref:api:ROOT:cloud-api.adoc#get-/v1alpha2/redpanda-connect/pipelines[`GET /v1alpha2/redpanda-connect/pipelines`] to verify your pipeline resource updates. 

> NOTE: If your resource request exceeds the maximum allowed limit, please contact Redpanda Support.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
NOTE: If your resource request exceeds the maximum allowed limit, contact Redpanda Support.
```
